# voltronic-dotnet
.Net Core 3.1 based system to control the Voltronic class of inverters

The Voltronic group of inverters (MKS, VM and King) are re-branded under many names, Axpert. MPP, Infinisolar, Mecer, Kodak and RCT to mention a few. After installing an RCT VM III 5K inverter and Pylontech US3000 battery in my home I was interested in developing software to interface with the USB port on the inverter. I found many examples in C++ and Python but my environment of choice is .Net and so I set out to create a system written in .Net core 3.1 to allow it to be as portable as possible. The goal is to be modular, there will be many system components.

The core component will be a linux service that will manage all communications with the inverter via the USB port. The port does not seem to work well with multiple clients accessing it at the same time, so I plan to have one service running which will handle all comms. The service will query the inverter periodically and then publish the results to a Rabbit MQ message queue. All other system compononents will query the Rabbit MQ queue for data. The service will also listen on a queue for requests to send new Settings commands to the inverter. The goal is to create a logical data model to represent the inverter status and then allow clients to modify the data model and place it onto the queue. The service will translate the changes to the data model into settings commands to send to the inverter. The entire process must be asynchonous, changes to the data model will reflect in new status messages on the queue when they have been affected.
